my-python-project-skeleton
==========================

Some useful utilities I like for managing Python projects.

(c) 2014 Gatlin Johnson <gatlin@niltag.net>

0. Synopsis
---

    $> git clone https://github.com/gatlin/my-python-project-skeleton
    $> make setup
    $> . ve/bin/activate
    (ve)$> make hooks

    (ve)$> ...

    (ve)$> make syncdeps
    (ve)$> make clean
    (ve)$> git add $FILES
    (ve)$> git commit -m "Just committing some files which will run tests.py"
    (ve)$> deactivate
    $>

1. Okay a little more elaboration
---

These are minimal scripts and helpers to aid in managing Python projects. It is
assumed that your project will use a virtual environment and pip.

### 1.1 Makefile

Much of this file is focused on maintaining a `requirements.txt` file
containing all the dependencies for your project installed in your virtual
environment. I personally prefer this to checking in the actual virtual
environment directory (and indeed, `ve` is in the `.gitignore` file).

The Makefile contains the following actions:

- `setup`. This creates a virtual environment, installs anything you have in
  `requirements.txt`, and and creates a git repository if necessary.

- `upgrade`. This upgrades all the packages in your virtual environment.

- `syncdeps`. Periodically run this to ensure `requirements.txt` is up to date
  with your virtual environment.

- `hook`. Symlinks any files in the `hooks/` directory into your local
  repository's hooks directory. Every time you edit a hook, run this command.

### 1.2 gitignore

Generated by [gitignore.io][gitignore.io]. Ignores vim swap files, .pyc files,
the virtual environment directory, and other annoying intermediate files.

### 1.3 tests.py

Use this to orchestrate any tests you want to run before each commit. If you
install the default `pre-commit` hook then this file must be present and exit
with `0` before the commit will succeed. By default, `tests.py` indeed returns
`0` so it should be safe to ignore it.

2. Questions? Insults? Bugs? Suggestions?
---

For bugs, [use GitHub's issue tracker][githubissues]. Pull requests are more
than welcome!

You can reach me at <gatlin@niltag.net> if you want to inquire further.

[gitignore.io]: http://www.gitignore.io
[githubissues]: https://github.com/gatlin/my-python-project-skeleton/issues
